What are the known cases where a programmer (just by programming) can become rich.
A programmer that started a company, I think, doesn't count except if he/she was not the CEO but the leader programmer.
This question, at first, may seems silly but its so fundamental as anyone else that you'll see in this site. In a given moment, a programmer must do the choice between crossover to a managerial role or keep programming just for the fun of it. And this choice affect everything else.
I was surprised at first not to see this very question being posted by younger visitors but it seems that, until today (20080807) everyone is only focused in technical facts. I firmly believe that a programmer must develop also "soft" skills and this kind of questions will be asked by newbies anyway (soon or later).
I wonder if Joel and Jeff has addressed this topic before... and I question Which is the business model for StackOverflow?
Updates:
Adam says that anyone that knows how to answer this question will not be answering. But that is exactly against the soul of my question. I want to keep programming, even testing and documenting mind you!, but also I want to go on vacation anytime. I want to share my wealth with my friend programmers and so.
Greg : I'm 35 years old and I don't think is naive to ask yourself what will be your sources of wealth. Maybe the question can be rephrased to "What are the things I must do to keep being a well paid programmer by age 60" but, you surely realize, that's implicit in the much more visible question that I posted.
Ballon : It seems like you read those books (there are three by same author for the same subject, right?) Can you tell us if you're rich?
Tom : That's my point. From my POV it seems like the only way to increase your paycheck is by climbing the corporate ladder, that's not being a programmer anymore. Just for the record: I did just that but I miss you guys! And I'm pretty sure that the formula involve to always learn as much as you can from others, that's explain pretty well why I ask.
EDIT: Bad news for you: I've been working for leader companies for twelve years and, although I like to think of myself as programmer, I'm not a formal programmer for eight years.
EDIT, SORRY ME: I'm doing it pretty well... but I'm not rich. Are your friends rich?
Modesty : I want to very proud of my achievements and for a weird reason, I prefer to be honest.
Avenger : I was tempted to accept your reply as the truer one but I realized that we're doing this just for fun (It's not obvious?) so let's keep it rolling. Besides that I want to keep the feet on the ground :P I'm already maintaining my family but I don't have money to do flights to the International Space Station
Ramiro : Muchas gracias! That's the kind of info I think we all need to keep our morale high!
Well, it seems David has the right answer.
Ballon : I was an enterprenuer (that means I run a startup before the word was used as it's used today) and started my own business at age 21. We grew very rapidly. Almost as fast as we broke :P
Grom : Its not about to accumulate wealth. It's about to keep being a programmer (not a very good one in my case) but enjoying luxuries like flights to the International Space Station, your own Basketball team, your own archeological team, your own country, or whatever your can dream of.